# SOEN471
AI diagnotics engine
Ebb&flo is the healthcare and biotechnology startup building the future of women and people's healthcare. The goal for the project is to build a template, guide, and deployment of AI models to integrate into a telehealth app, starting with endometriosis. After discussions with the representative of ebb&flo, the task that our group needs to complete is to build a model that can accurately predict diagnostic results based on the collected data which the model should be trained on a large and diverse dataset to ensure that it can generalize well to new data, namely a diagnostics engine. 
Ebb&flo provide us a clean dataset on the symptoms and diagnosis of endometriosis. They ask clients to fill out an endometriosis questionnaire that contains four fields: diagnostics, history, menstrual cycle and fertility. Based on the questionnaire, they were able to understand the client's symptoms. The dataset contains 885 rows along with 61 columns. The columns represent cases of symptoms that are associated with endometriosis and the rows represent each individual. The last column is called Endometriosis_YN and shows the diagnostic results for endometriosis. There are no missing values and each box in the dataset has either 1 or 0, 1 means yes and 0 means no. 
Normally endometriosis can take years to diagnose, but our goal is to get the diagnosis time down to a few minutes. Our plan is to have the clients fill out a questionnaire and based on their response we should be able to have data about the symptoms. Thus, our research problem is to build a diagnostic prediction model and use the existing dataset to train and test this model. To find the symptoms that are most closely associated with endometriosis, we set Endometriosis_YN as the response variable. Then view the correlation each symptom has with the response variable. Finally, we can apply our model on new clients and give ebb&flo an accurate diagnostic result which tells if a particular person has the disease.
Supervised learning is the model class that we are going to use for our research question. We use supervised learning for two reasons, the first one is that all instances in the given dataset are labeled and the second reason is that we want to predict an accurate outcome which is to diagnose whether the client has endometriosis or not. 
We choose two algorithms to implement into our model: Linear Regression and Decision tree. We assume that the symptoms are linear related to the diagnosis, and all symptoms have no auto-correlation or homoscedasticity, so we could implement linear regression to predict the result based on clients' symptoms. On the other hand, we have analyzed the features and found its values are preferred to be categorical, so the implementation of the decision tree as another algorithm is also a good choice to apply on our model.
